CHAPTER VI

THE BOYHOOD OF A GENIUS

The class had assembled again in Professor Gray's study and all were eager to hear the second talk on Edison. There was a delay of many minutes past the hour stated, but the anticipation was such that the time was hardly noticed. During the interim, Professor Gray came to where Bill and Gus sat.

"I hear that you boys intend to go to work in the mills next week," he said. "Well, now, I have some news and a proposition, so do not be disappointed if the beginning sounds discouraging. In the first place I saw Mr. Deering, superintendent of the mills, again and he told me that while he would make good his promise to take you on, there would hardly be more than a few weeks' work. Orders are scarce and they expect to lay off men in August, though there is likely to be a resumption of business in the early fall when you are getting back into school work. So wouldn't it be better to forego the mill work,--there goes the announcement! I'll talk with you before you leave."

"But we need the money; don't we, Gus?"

"We do," said Gus.

"I wonder if the Professor thinks we're millionaires." Bill was plainly disappointed.

"Oh, well, he didn't finish what he was saying to us. Let's listen to the weather report," demanded Gus, ever optimistic and joyful.

The words came clearer than ever out of that wonderful horn. There was to be rain that afternoon--local thunderstorms, followed by clearing and cooler. On the morrow it would be cloudy and unsettled.

Bill felt as though that prediction suited his mental state! Gus was never the kind to worry; he sat smiling at the horn and he received with added pleasure the music of a band which followed. And then came the second talk on the boyhood of the master of invention.

"It has been said," spouted the horn, "that high mental characteristics are accompanied by heroic traits. Whether true or not generally, it was demonstrated in young Edison and it governed his learning telegraphy and the manner thereof. The story is told by the telegraph operator at Mt. Clemens, where the red-headed conductor threw the train boy and his laboratory off the train.

"'Young Edison,' says the station agent, 'had endeared himself to the station agents, operators and their families all along the line. As the mixed train did the way-freight work and the switching at Mt. Clemens, it usually consumed not less than thirty minutes, during which time Al would play with my little two-and-a-half-year old son, Jimmy.

"'It was at 9:30 on a lovely summer morning. The train had arrived, leaving its passenger coach and baggage car standing on the main track at the north end of the station platform, the pin between the baggage and the first box car having been pulled out. There were about a dozen freight cars, which had pulled ahead and backed in upon the freight-house siding. The train men had taken out a box car and pushed it with force enough to reach the baggage car without a brakeman controlling it.

"'At this moment Al turned and saw little Jimmy on the main track, throwing pebbles over his head in the sunshine, all unconscious of danger. Dashing his papers and cap on the platform he plunged to the rescue.

"'The train baggage man was the only eyewitness. He told me that when he saw Al jump toward Jimmy he thought sure both boys would be crushed. Seizing Jimmy in his arms just as the box car was about to strike them, young Edison threw himself off the track. There wasn't a tenth of a second to lose. By this instinctive act he saved his own life, for if he had thrown the little chap first and then himself, he would have been crushed under the wheels.

"'As it was, the front wheel struck the heel of the newsboy's boot and he and Jimmy fell, face downward on the sharp, fresh-gravel ballast so hard that they were both bleeding and the baggage man thought sure the wheel had gone over them. To his surprise their injuries proved to be only skin deep.

"'I was in the ticket office when I heard the shriek and ran out in time to see the train hands carrying the two boys to the platform. My first thought was: 'How can I, a poor man, reward the dear lad for risking his life to save my child's?' Then it came to me, 'I can teach him telegraphy.' When I offered to do this, he smiled and said, 'I'd like to learn,' and learn he did. I never saw any one pick it up so fast. It was a sort of second nature with him. After the conductor treated him so badly, throwing off his apparatus, boxing his ears and making him hard of hearing, Al seemed to lose his interest in his business as train boy.

"'Some days Al would stop at my station at half past nine in the morning and stay all day while the train went on to Detroit and returned to Mt. Clemens in the evening. The train baggage man who saw Al rescue Jimmy would get the papers in Detroit and bring them up to Mt. Clemens for him. During these long hours the Edison boy made rapid progress in learning. And every day he made the most of the half hour or more of practice he had while the train stopped at Mt. Clemens each way.

"'At the end of a couple of weeks I missed him for several days. Next time he dropped off he showed me a set of telegraph instruments he had made in a gunshop in Detroit, where the stationer who had sold him goods had told the owner of the machine shop the story of the printing press.'

"The first place young Edison worked after he was graduated from the Mt. Clemens private school of telegraphy was in Port Huron, his home town. Here he had too many boy friends to let him keep on the job as a youthful telegrapher should. Besides, he had a laboratory in his home and found it too fascinating to take enough sleep. Between too much side work and mischief, young Edison sometimes found himself in trouble. Some of his escapades he has described to his friend and assistant, William H. Meadowcroft.

"'About every night we could hear the soldiers stationed at Fort Gratiot. One would call out: "Corporal of Guard Number One!" This was repeated from one sentry to another till it reached the barracks and "No. 1" came out to see what was wanted. The Dutch boy (who used to help me with the papers) and I thought we would try our hand in military matters.

"'So one dark night I called, "Corporal of the Guard Number One!" The second sentry, thinking it had come from the man stationed at the end, repeated this, and the words went down the line as usual. This reached Corporal Number One, and brought him back to our end only to find out that he had been tricked by someone.

"'We did this three times, but on the third night they were watching. They caught the Dutch boy and locked him up in the fort. Several soldiers chased me home. I ran down cellar where there were two barrels of potatoes and a third which was almost empty. I dumped the contents of three barrels into two, sat down, pulled the empty barrel over my head, bottom upwards. The soldiers woke my father, and they all came hunting for me with lanterns and candles.

"'The corporal was perfectly sure I had come down cellar. He couldn't see how I had got away, and asked father if there wasn't a secret place for me to hide in the cellar. When father said "No," he exclaimed, "Well, that's very strange!"

"'You can understand how glad I was when they left, for I was in a cramped position, and as there had been rotten potatoes in that barrel, I was beginning to feel sick.

"'The next morning father found me in bed and gave me a good switching on my legs--the only whipping I ever received from him, though mother kept behind the old clock a switch which had the bark well worn off! My mother's ideas differed somewhat from mine, most of all when I mussed up the house with my experiments.

"'The Dutch boy was released the next morning.'

"Another escapade described by Edison was pulled off on the Canada side of the St. Clair, in Port Sarnia, opposite Port Huron.

"'In 1860 the Prince of Wales (afterward King Edward) visited Canada. Nearly every lad in Port Huron, including myself, went over to Sarnia to see the celebration. The town was profusely draped in flags--there were arches over some streets--and carpets were laid on the crossings for the prince to walk on.

"'A stand was built where the prince was to be received by the mayor. Seeing all these arrangements raised my idea of the prince very high. But when he finally came I mistook the Duke of Newcastle for Albert Edward. The duke was a very fine-looking man. When I discovered my mistake--the Prince of Wales being a mere stripling--I was so disappointed that I couldn't help mentioning the fact. Then several of us American boys expressed our belief that a prince wasn't much after all! One boy got well whipped for this and there was a free-for-all fight. The Canucks attacked the Yankee boys and, as they greatly outnumbered us, we were all badly licked and I got a black eye. This always prejudiced me against that kind of ceremonial and folly.'"
Все cобытия вымышленные, любые совпадения имен, историй с реальными случайны.
Книга никоим образом не претендует на справочник-пособие "Как стать кардером" или биографию, а является художественным произведением, родившемся в моей голове. Всем, кого интересует, зачем я вообще за это взялась, могу ответить, просто мне хочется описать жизнь человека в интернете, изменение его мышления, в частности психологию кардера. Пока это только начало, постепенно с написанием книги, буду выкладывать главы в интернет. Следите за развитием событий в жизни кардера Блэка, а я буду следить за Вами

Глава 1.

«Сеть захватывает, заглатывает тебя без остатка. Для человека, увлеченного компьютером, эти два мира существуют параллельно. В сети ты можешь переживать чувства и эмоции ничуть не менее, а зачастую и гораздо более яркие, чем в жизни.»


***

Вечер выдался шумным; на дворе было 9 мая, и молодежь во всю отмечала День Победы. Смех и крики доносились с улицы через открытое окно; пьяные подростки спорили, ругались, кто-то пел песни.
Блэка это сильно раздражало. Он сидел перед монитором и пытался сосредоточиться.
«И это считается одним из самых тихих районов в Москве?!» - Со злостью произнес парень, одевая наушники. «Уж лучше пусть меня нервирует музыка, чем эти идиоты» - решил он.
Блэк потянулся к пачке сигарет, потерявшейся где-то среди беспорядочного нагромождения книг около стола, когда он несколько минут назад ее кинул туда со злости. Ему срочно надо было взять себя в руки. Напряжение все нарастало.
Этот взлом планировался не один день; обычный американский онлайн магазин, каких полно в Интернете, единственное его преимущество над остальными было в количестве пользователей. Ежедневно тысячи долларов проходили через этот сайт. У Блэка было достаточно денег, но он всегда хотел больше; азарт и спортивный интерес владели этим парнем.
Ему надо только слить базу с номерами кредиток и, можно сказать, дело в шляпе; продаст ее кардерам, и тогда на счету Блэка значительно прибавится долларов. Вот только админы магазина были не дураками; защита магазина организована на высоком уровне. Парню пришлось потрудиться, чтобы найти какую-то зацепку.
Но, как знает любой хакер: «Невзламываемых систем не бывает, бывает только мало времени».
Сначала Блэк пытался найти уязвимость в движке самого магазина; как у любого уважающего себя проекта, сайт у них был самописным. Но, несмотря на внушительные масштабы проекта, большое количество кода, и как следствие большую возможность допустить ошибку, найти дыру ему не удавалось. Все было чисто.
Тогда Блэк решил пойти другим путем. Через неграмотно настроенный DNS сервис, он смог определить, что на том же сервере, хостится еще один сайт, как выяснилось что-то вроде онлайн дневника, по всей видимости, принадлежащего одному из админов магазина.
И вот оно! В отличие от магазина, этот сайт использовал бесплатно-распространяемый новостной движок. Не долго думая, Блэк зашел на сайт-производитель, скачал себе его и начал тестить на уязвимости. Установив сайт у себя на локалхосте и получив возможность смотреть код изнутри, шансы на успех возрастли, поэтому через некоторое время уязвимость была найдена. PHP-include баг, дающий возможность получения веб-шелла. «С помощью такого шелла можно будет выполнять команды на сервере магазина, какие-то операции с файлами, а это уже очень неплохо» - решил для себя Блэк.